README.md, before:

# VaultMail - Private, Serverless Disposable Mail

![VaultMail Banner](public/readme-banner.png)

A premium, privacy-focused disposable email service built with **Next.js** and **Upstash Redis**. Features real-time inbox updates, custom domain support, and configurable privacy settings.

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg) ![Next.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-15-black) ![Redis](https://img.shields.io/badge/Upstash-Redis-green)

## ✨ Features

-   **🛡️ Privacy First**: Emails are stored in short-lived Redis keys with auto-expiry.
-   **⚙️ Configurable Retention**: Users can set email lifespan from **30 minutes** to **1 week**.
-   **🌐 Custom Domains**: Bring your own domain via Cloudflare or Mailgun (Manage Domains GUI included).
-   **⚡ Real-time**: Instant email delivery and inbox updates.
-   **🎨 Premium UI**: Glassmorphism aesthetic, Dark Mode, and responsive mobile design.
-   **📜 History**: Locally stored history of generated addresses for quick access.
-   **🔗 Pretty URLs**: Shareable links like `https://app.com/user@domain.com`.

## 🏗️ Architecture

1.  **Incoming Mail**: DNS MX Records point to your email routing service (Cloudflare/Mailgun).
2.  **Webhook**: The service forwards the raw email to `https://your-app.com/api/webhook`.
3.  **Processing**: The app parses the email, checks user retention settings, and stores it in **Upstash Redis**.
4.  **Frontend**: The Next.js UI polls the API to display emails for the current address.

## 🚀 Deployment Guide

### 1. Deploy to Vercel

Clone this repository and deploy it to Vercel.

### 2. Configure Database (Upstash Redis)

1.  Go to the **Storage** tab in your Vercel Project.
2.  Click **Connect Store** and select **Upstash Redis** from the Marketplace.
3.  Link it to your project. This will automagically set:
    *   `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL`
    *   `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN`

### 3. Configure Email Forwarding

You need a service to receive SMTP traffic and forward it to your app's webhook.

#### Recommended: Cloudflare Email Workers (Free)
We include a pre-configured worker in the `worker/` directory.

1.  **Setup Cloudflare**:
    *   Add your domain to Cloudflare.
    *   Enable **Email Routing** in the Cloudflare Dashboard.

2.  **Deploy the Worker**:
    ```bash
    cd worker
    npm install
    # Configure worker environment variables in Cloudflare (or via wrangler)
    # Required:
    #   WEBHOOK_URL=https://your-vercel-app.vercel.app/api/webhook
    # Optional (forward specific domains to a verified Email Routing address):
    #   FORWARD_DOMAINS=example.com,anotherdomain.com
    #   FORWARD_EMAIL=verified@yourdomain.com
    npm run deploy
    ```

3.  **Route Emails**:
    *   In Cloudflare Email Routing > **Routes**.
    *   Create a "Catch-All" route.
    *   Action: `Send to Worker` -> Destination: `dispomail-forwarder` (or whatever you named it).

4.  **Optional: GitHub Actions Deploy**:
    *   Set repository secrets:
        *   `CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN`
        *   `CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID`
        *   `WEBHOOK_URL` (required)
        *   `FORWARD_DOMAINS` (optional)
        *   `FORWARD_EMAIL` (optional)
    *   Pushing changes under `worker/` will trigger `.github/workflows/worker-deploy.yml`.
    *   The workflow syncs the listed secrets on deploy so values stay consistent across redeploys.

## 🛠️ Local Development

1.  **Install Dependencies**:
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

2.  **Environment Setup**:
    Create `.env.local` and add your Upstash Redis credentials:
    ```env
    UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL="your-url"
    UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN="your-token"
    # Optional: isolate Redis keys per deployment to avoid cross-app conflicts
    # Example: REDIS_KEY_PREFIX="vaultmail-app-1"
    REDIS_KEY_PREFIX=""
    # Optional: enable Google AdSense auto ads
    NEXT_PUBLIC_ADSENSE_CLIENT_ID="ca-pub-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
    ```

3.  **Run Development Server**:
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

## 📚 API Documentation (Temporary Email)

### 1) Fetch Inbox

Ambil daftar email untuk alamat sementara.

**Endpoint**
```
GET /api/inbox?address=nama@domain.com
```

**Response**
```json
{
  "emails": [
    {
      "id": "uuid",
      "from": "sender@example.com",
      "to": "nama@domain.com",
      "subject": "Hello",
      "text": "Plain text",
      "html": "<p>Plain text</p>",
      "attachments": [],
      "receivedAt": "2025-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
      "read": false
    }
  ]
}
```

### 2) Webhook (Inbound Email)

Email routing service (Cloudflare/Mailgun) mengirim email ke endpoint ini.

**Endpoint**
```
POST /api/webhook
```

**JSON Body Example**
```json
{
  "from": "sender@example.com",
  "to": "nama@domain.com",
  "subject": "Hello",
  "text": "Plain text message",
  "html": "<p>Plain text message</p>",
  "attachments": []
}
```

**Response**
```json
{ "success": true, "id": "uuid" }
```

### 3) Download Email / Attachment

**Endpoint**
```
GET /api/download?address=nama@domain.com&emailId=uuid&type=email
GET /api/download?address=nama@domain.com&emailId=uuid&type=attachment&index=0
```

### 4) Retention Settings (Read Only)

**Endpoint**
```
GET /api/retention
```

**Response**
```json
{
  "seconds": 86400,
  "updatedAt": "2025-01-01T00:00:00.000Z"
}
```

## 📜 License

MIT License. Feel free to fork and deploy your own private email shield.

Commit message:

Replace Redis storage with MongoDB

README.md, after:

# VaultMail - Private, Serverless Disposable Mail

![VaultMail Banner](public/readme-banner.png)

A premium, privacy-focused disposable email service built with **Next.js** and **MongoDB**. Features real-time inbox updates, custom domain support, and configurable privacy settings.

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg) ![Next.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-15-black) ![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-47A248)

## ✨ Features

-   **🛡️ Privacy First**: Emails are stored in short-lived MongoDB records with auto-expiry logic.
-   **⚙️ Configurable Retention**: Users can set email lifespan from **30 minutes** to **1 week**.
-   **🌐 Custom Domains**: Bring your own domain via Cloudflare or Mailgun (Manage Domains GUI included).
-   **⚡ Real-time**: Instant email delivery and inbox updates.
-   **🎨 Premium UI**: Glassmorphism aesthetic, Dark Mode, and responsive mobile design.
-   **📜 History**: Locally stored history of generated addresses for quick access.
-   **🔗 Pretty URLs**: Shareable links like `https://app.com/user@domain.com`.

## 🏗️ Architecture

1.  **Incoming Mail**: DNS MX Records point to your email routing service (Cloudflare/Mailgun).
2.  **Webhook**: The service forwards the raw email to `https://your-app.com/api/webhook`.
3.  **Processing**: The app parses the email, checks user retention settings, and stores it in **MongoDB**.
4.  **Frontend**: The Next.js UI polls the API to display emails for the current address.

## 🚀 Deployment Guide

### 1. Deploy to Vercel

Clone this repository and deploy it to Vercel.

### 2. Configure Database (MongoDB)

Provision a MongoDB database (MongoDB Atlas or self-hosted) and set the connection string in Vercel:

*   `MONGODB_URI`
*   `MONGODB_DB` (optional, defaults to `vaultmail`)

### 3. Configure Email Forwarding

You need a service to receive SMTP traffic and forward it to your app's webhook.

#### Recommended: Cloudflare Email Workers (Free)
We include a pre-configured worker in the `worker/` directory.

1.  **Setup Cloudflare**:
    *   Add your domain to Cloudflare.
    *   Enable **Email Routing** in the Cloudflare Dashboard.

2.  **Deploy the Worker**:
    ```bash
    cd worker
    npm install
    # Configure worker environment variables in Cloudflare (or via wrangler)
    # Required:
    #   WEBHOOK_URL=https://your-vercel-app.vercel.app/api/webhook
    # Optional (forward specific domains to a verified Email Routing address):
    #   FORWARD_DOMAINS=example.com,anotherdomain.com
    #   FORWARD_EMAIL=verified@yourdomain.com
    npm run deploy
    ```

3.  **Route Emails**:
    *   In Cloudflare Email Routing > **Routes**.
    *   Create a "Catch-All" route.
    *   Action: `Send to Worker` -> Destination: `dispomail-forwarder` (or whatever you named it).

4.  **Optional: GitHub Actions Deploy**:
    *   Set repository secrets:
        *   `CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN`
        *   `CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID`
        *   `WEBHOOK_URL` (required)
        *   `FORWARD_DOMAINS` (optional)
        *   `FORWARD_EMAIL` (optional)
    *   Pushing changes under `worker/` will trigger `.github/workflows/worker-deploy.yml`.
    *   The workflow syncs the listed secrets on deploy so values stay consistent across redeploys.

## 🛠️ Local Development

1.  **Install Dependencies**:
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

2.  **Environment Setup**:
    Create `.env.local` and add your MongoDB credentials:
    ```env
    MONGODB_URI="your-connection-string"
    MONGODB_DB="vaultmail"
    # Optional: isolate storage keys per deployment to avoid cross-app conflicts
    # Example: STORAGE_KEY_PREFIX="vaultmail-app-1"
    STORAGE_KEY_PREFIX=""
    # Optional: enable Google AdSense auto ads
    NEXT_PUBLIC_ADSENSE_CLIENT_ID="ca-pub-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
    ```

3.  **Run Development Server**:
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

## 📚 API Documentation (Temporary Email)

### 1) Fetch Inbox

Ambil daftar email untuk alamat sementara.

**Endpoint**
```
GET /api/inbox?address=nama@domain.com
```

**Response**
```json
{
  "emails": [
    {
      "id": "uuid",
      "from": "sender@example.com",
      "to": "nama@domain.com",
      "subject": "Hello",
      "text": "Plain text",
      "html": "<p>Plain text</p>",
      "attachments": [],
      "receivedAt": "2025-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
      "read": false
    }
  ]
}
```

### 2) Webhook (Inbound Email)

Email routing service (Cloudflare/Mailgun) mengirim email ke endpoint ini.

**Endpoint**
```
POST /api/webhook
```

**JSON Body Example**
```json
{
  "from": "sender@example.com",
  "to": "nama@domain.com",
  "subject": "Hello",
  "text": "Plain text message",
  "html": "<p>Plain text message</p>",
  "attachments": []
}
```

**Response**
```json
{ "success": true, "id": "uuid" }
```

### 3) Download Email / Attachment

**Endpoint**
```
GET /api/download?address=nama@domain.com&emailId=uuid&type=email
GET /api/download?address=nama@domain.com&emailId=uuid&type=attachment&index=0
```

### 4) Retention Settings (Read Only)

**Endpoint**
```
GET /api/retention
```

**Response**
```json
{
  "seconds": 86400,
  "updatedAt": "2025-01-01T00:00:00.000Z"
}
```

## 📜 License

MIT License. Feel free to fork and deploy your own private email shield.
